docs: edit builtin-directives doc (#39816)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/built-in-directives.md

Because `isSpecial` is true, `ngClass` applies the class of `special` to the `<div>`.

<code-example path="built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.html" region="special-div" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

### Using `NgClass` with a method

1. To use `NgClass` with a method, add the method to the component class.

  In the following example, `setCurrentClasses()`, sets the property `currentClasses` with an object that adds or removes three classes based on the `true` or `false` state of three other component properties.

  Each key of the object is a CSS class name.
  If a key is `true`, `ngClass` adds the class.
  If a key is `false`, `ngClass` removes the class.

  <code-example path="built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.ts" region="setClasses" header="src/app/app.component.ts"></code-example>

1. In the template, add the `ngClass` property binding to `currentClasses` to set the element's classes:

  <code-example path="built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.html" region="NgClass-1" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

For this use case, Angular applies the classes upon initialization and in case of changes.

> To do this, the full example calls `setCurrentClasses()` initially with `ngOnInit()` and when the dependent properties change through a button click.
> However, these steps are not necessary to implement `ngClass` on its own.
> See the <live-example></live-example> `app.component.ts` and `app.component.html` for this optional implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The full example calls `setCurrentClasses()` initially with `ngOnInit()` and when the dependent properties change through a button click.
These steps are not necessary to implement `ngClass`.
For more information, see the <live-example></live-example> `app.component.ts` and `app.component.html`.
```

Minor edits to remove ambiguous terms and to make this content more concise.

For this use case, Angular applies the styles upon initialization and in case of changes.
To do this, the full example calls `setCurrentStyles()` initially with `ngOnInit()` and when the dependent properties change through a button click.
However, these steps are not necessary to implement `ngStyle` on its own.
See the <live-example></live-example> `app.component.ts` and `app.component.html` for this optional implementation.

{@a ngModel}
## Displaying and updating properties with `ngModel`

You can use the `NgModel` directive to display a data property and update that property when the user makes changes.

1. Import `FormsModule`  and add it to the NgModule's `imports` list.

  <code-example path="built-in-directives/src/app/app.module.ts" header="src/app/app.module.ts (FormsModule import)" region="import-forms-module"></code-example>

1. Add an `[(ngModel)]` binding on an HTML `<form>` element and set it equal to the property, here `name`.

  <code-example path="built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.html" header="src/app/app.component.html (NgModel example)" region="NgModel-1"></code-example>

> <!-- The section is conceptual rather than task-based. Should we move it somewhere? -->

Author: Hey, @aikidave! This is commented out section (L102-130) is conceptual, while the PR focuses on task-based items. Would you like it moved elsewhere?

Author: Per offline conversation, we are keeping this section.

# Built-in directives

Directives are classes that you can use as building blocks to customize your Angular applications.
With Angular's built-in directives, you can manage forms, lists, styles, and what users see.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

See the <live-example></live-example> for a working example containing the code snippets in this guide.

</div>

> There are three kinds of directives in Angular:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The different types of Angular directives are as follows:
```

Rewriting to avoid a specific number (three).

> 1. [Components](guide/component-overview)&mdash;directives with a template and the most common of the three directives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Components](guide/component-overview)&mdash;directives with a template. This type of directive is the most common directive type.
```

> 1. [Attribute directives](guide/built-in-directives#built-in-attribute-directives)&mdash;change the appearance or behavior of an element, component, or another directive.
> 1. [Structural directives](guide/built-in-directives#built-in-structural-directives)&mdash;change the DOM layout by adding and removing DOM elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Attribute directives](guide/built-in-directives#built-in-attribute-directives)&mdash;directives that change the appearance or behavior of an element, component, or another directive.
1. [Structural directives](guide/built-in-directives#built-in-structural-directives)&mdash;directives that change the DOM layout by adding and removing DOM elements.
```

Adjusting the language for better parallelism.

> This guide covers built-in [attribute directives](guide/built-in-directives#built-in-attribute-directives) and [structural directives](guide/built-in-directives#built-in-structural-directives).

Reviewer: Thought: Add a link to component directives?

Author: Sure, @aikidave. There is a link to the components guide on line 14 in this numbered list. The reason it isn't in line 18 is because line 18 just talks about with this guide covers. There are three kinds of directives but this guide only talks about the built-in attribute and structural directives. In general, we treat components differently and point out that they are directives but only occasionally. We could omit the components reference to keep the focus only on attribute and structural directives, but including components here or somewhere does seem important. What do you think?

<hr/>

{@a attribute-directives}
## Built-in attribute directives

Attribute directives listen to and modify the behavior of other HTML elements, attributes, properties, and components.

Many NgModules such as the [`RouterModule`](guide/router "Routing and Navigation") and the [`FormsModule`](guide/forms "Forms") define their own attribute directives.
The most common attribute directives are as follows:

* [`NgClass`](guide/built-in-directives#ngClass)&mdash;adds and removes a set of CSS classes.
* [`NgStyle`](guide/built-in-directives#ngstyle)&mdash;adds and removes a set of HTML styles.
* [`NgModel`](guide/built-in-directives#ngModel)&mdash;adds two-way data binding to an HTML form element.

{@a ngClass}

> ## Adding and removing classes with `NgClass`

Reviewer: Love this!

You can add or remove multiple CSS classes simultaneously with `ngClass`.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

To add or remove a *single* class, use [class binding](guide/attribute-binding#class-binding) rather than `NgClass`.

</div>

### Using `NgClass` with an expression

On the element you'd like to style, add `[ngClass]` and set it equal to an expression.
In this case, `isSpecial` is a boolean set to `true` in `app.component.ts`.
Because `isSpecial` is true, `ngClass` applies the class of `special` to the `<div>`.

<code-example path="built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.html" region="special-div" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

### Using `NgClass` with a method

1. To use `NgClass` with a method, add the method to the component class.

>   In the following example, `setCurrentClasses()`, sets the property `currentClasses` with an object that adds or removes three classes based on the `true` or `false` state of three other component properties.

Author: Per offline conversation, this is a styling issue Impact any inside of a numbered list item. Discussion about resolution still in progress.

For this use case, Angular applies the classes upon initialization and in case of changes.
The full example calls `setCurrentClasses()` initially with `ngOnInit()` and when the dependent properties change through a button click.
These steps are not necessary to implement `ngClass`.
For more information, see the <live-example></live-example> `app.component.ts` and `app.component.html`.

{@a ngstyle}
## Setting inline styles with `NgStyle`

You can use `NgStyle` to set multiple inline styles simultaneously, based on the state of the component.

1. To use `NgStyle`, add a method to the component class.

  In the following example, `setCurrentStyles()` sets the property `currentStyles` with an object that defines three styles, based on the state of three other component properties.

  <code-example path="built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.ts" region="setStyles" header="src/app/app.component.ts"></code-example>

1. To set the element's styles, add an `ngStyle` property binding to `currentStyles`.

  <code-example path="built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.html" region="NgStyle-2" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

> For this use case, Angular applies the styles upon initialization and in case of changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this use case, Angular applies the styles on initialization and in case of changes.
```

I should watch for this in my own writing, but we probably don't need "upon." It's a bit academic and I'm unsure how well it translates.

  <code-example path="built-in-directives/src/app/app.module.ts" header="src/app/app.module.ts (FormsModule import)" region="import-forms-module"></code-example>

1. Add an `[(ngModel)]` binding on an HTML `<form>` element and set it equal to the property, here `name`.

  <code-example path="built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.html" header="src/app/app.component.html (NgModel example)" region="NgModel-1"></code-example>

  This `[(ngModel)]` syntax can only set a data-bound property.

To customize your configuration, you can write the expanded form, which separates the property and event binding.
Use [property binding](guide/property-binding) to set the property and [event binding](guide/event-binding) to respond to changes.
The following example changes the `<input>` value to uppercase:

<code-example path="built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.html" region="uppercase" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

Here are all variations in action, including the uppercase version:

<div class="lightbox">
  <img src='generated/images/guide/built-in-directives/ng-model-anim.gif' alt="NgModel variations">
</div>

> ### `NgModel` and value accessors

Author: @aikidave This is the outstanding section for your review (added after your previous review).

For more information, see the API documentation on [DefaultValueAccessor](api/forms/DefaultValueAccessor).

<div class="alert is-helpful">

When you write an Angular component, you don't need a value accessor or `NgModel` if you  name the value and event properties according to Angular's [two-way binding syntax](guide/two-way-binding#how-two-way-binding-works).

</div>

{@a structural-directives}

## Built-in structural directives

Structural directives are responsible for HTML layout.
They shape or reshape the DOM's structure, typically by adding, removing, and manipulating the host elements to which they are attached.

This section introduces the most common built-in structural directives:

* [`NgIf`](guide/built-in-directives#ngIf)&mdash;conditionally creates or disposes of subviews from the template.
* [`NgFor`](guide/built-in-directives#ngFor)&mdash;repeat a node for each item in a list.
* [`NgSwitch`](guide/built-in-directives#ngSwitch)&mdash;a set of directives that switch among alternative views.

For more information, see [Structural Directives](guide/structural-directives).

{@a ngIf}

> ## Adding or removing an element with `NgIf`

Reviewer: Observation: Interesting that documentation for *ngIf is 150 lines into the topic. I wonder if we should consider restructuring this content so that the more popular directives show up first? I'm not sure though--just because something is popular doesn't mean it's more important.

Author: Part of the issue is that the document contains two different topics. Currently, attribute directives come first, then structural directives. This is at the very beginning of the structural directive section, and if structural directives were moved to its own document, then `*ngIf` would appear at the very top. Alternatively, we could put structural directives first. What are your thoughts, @aikidave?

Reviewer: I think it's definitely something to think about, but it's beyond the scope of this PR. We can revisit at a later date.

You can add or remove an element by applying an `NgIf` directive to a host element.

When `NgIf` is `false`, Angular removes an element and its descendants from the DOM.
Angular then disposes of their components, which frees up memory and resources.

> To add or remove an element, bind `*ngIf` to a condition expression such as `isActive` in the following example.

Reviewer: I notice that sometimes we refer to directives as `*ngIf` and sometimes as `NgIf`. I think I understand why: one is referring to what you actually add to your code, and the other is the official name of the directive. But I wonder if this causes confusion with the users?

No change necessary, but perhaps something for @TeriGlover to consider as we refine our style guide.

<code-example path="built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.html" region="NgIf-1" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

When the `isActive` expression returns a truthy value, `NgIf` adds the `ItemDetailComponent` to the DOM.
When the expression is falsy, `NgIf` removes the `ItemDetailComponent` from the DOM and disposes of the component and all of its sub-components.

> For more information on `NgIf` and `ngIfElse`, see the [NgIf API documentation](api/common/NgIf).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on `NgIf` and `NgIfElse`, see the [NgIf API documentation](api/common/NgIf).
```
However we refer to directives, we should try to be consistent. :)

<code-example path="built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.html" region="NgIf-2" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

However, if the property is `null`, Angular does not display the `<div>`.
In this example, Angular does not display the `nullCustomer` because it is `null`.

<code-example path="built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.html" region="NgIf-2b" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

{@a ngFor}
## Listing items with `NgFor`

You can use the `NgFor` directive to present a list of items.

1. Define a block of HTML that determines how Angular renders a single item.

1. To list your items, assign the _microsyntax_ `let item of items` to `*ngFor`.

<code-example path="built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.html" region="NgFor-1" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

The string `"let item of items"` instructs Angular to do the following:

  * store each item in the `items` array in the local `item` looping variable
  * make each item available to the templated HTML for each iteration
  * translate `"let item of items"` into an `<ng-template>` around the host element

>   * repeat the `<ng-template>` for each `item` in the list

Reviewer: For @TeriGlover Should the start of each list item be capitalized? I actually am never sure about this!

Author: Teri responded here: https://github.com/angular/angular/pull/39816#issuecomment-752142119

To repeat a block of HTML when a particular condition is true, put the `*ngIf` on a container element that wraps an `*ngFor` element.
One or both elements can be an `<ng-container>` so you don't have to introduce extra levels of HTML.

Because structural directives add and remove nodes from the DOM, apply only one structural directive per element.

For more information about `NgFor` see the [NgForOf API reference](api/common/NgForOf).

{@a ngfor-with-trackby}
### Tracking items with `*ngFor` `trackBy`

By tracking changes to an item list, you can reduce the number of calls your application makes to the server.
With the `*ngFor` `trackBy` property, Angular can change and re-render only those items that have changed, rather than reloading the entire list of items.

1. Add a method to the component that returns the value `NgFor` should track.
  In this example, the value to track is the item's `id`.
  If the browser has already rendered `id`, Angular keeps track of it and doesn't re-query the server for the same `id`.

  <code-example path="built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.ts" region="trackByItems" header="src/app/app.component.ts"></code-example>

> 1. In the microsyntax expression, set `trackBy` to the `trackByItems()` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the microsyntax expression, set `trackBy` to the `trackByItems()` method.
```

Did we make a decision about the term `microexpression`?

Author: Yes, `microsyntax` has become `short hand`.

  <code-example path="built-in-directives/src/app/app.component.html" region="trackBy" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

> In the following illustration of the `trackBy` effect, "Reset items" creates new items with the same `item.id`s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following illustration of the `trackBy` effect, "Reset items" creates new items with the same `item.id`s.
```
Let's avoid using quotation marks for emphasis if possible. If this is a UI element, it should use bold. If it's code, it should use code font.

> "Change ids" creates new items with new `item.id`s.

Reviewer: See previous comment.

* With no `trackBy`, both buttons trigger complete DOM element replacement.
* With `trackBy`, only changing the `id` triggers element replacement.

<div class="lightbox">
  <img src="generated/images/guide/built-in-directives/ngfor-trackby.gif" alt="Animation of trackBy">
</div>

<div class="alert is-helpful">

Built-in directives use only public APIs.
They do not have special access to any private APIs that other directives can't access.

</div>

{@a ngcontainer}

> ## `<ng-container>`

Reviewer: Can we retitle this section to be more task-focused?

Author: Ah, It was unintentional! Changed to: "Hosting a directive without a DOM element".

# Built-in directives

> Directives are classes that you can use as building blocks to customize your Angular applications.

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like
```markdown
Directives are classes that add additional behavior to elements
in your Angular applications.
```
I would shy away from saying "building blocks" here since we tend to use that phrase for components.
